Author Python Runtime CLI Reference (#763)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/project-config/cli-reference.md

- Run the `o3de.bat` batch file directly.
    ```cmd
    <engine>\scripts\o3de.bat <command>
    ```

- Launch Python and run the `o3de.py` script.
    ```cmd
    <engine>\python\python.cmd <engine>\scripts\o3de.py <command>
    ```

{{< note >}}
Replace `<engine>` with the path to your engine.
{{< /note >}}

For example, to register the engine, enter the following command:

```cmd
<engine>\scripts\o3de.bat register --this-engine
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Linux" %}}

To run the O3DE Python runtime and a command, in a terminal window, do either of the following:

- Run the `o3de.sh` shell script file directly.
    ```bash
    <engine>/scripts/o3de.sh <command>
    ```

- Launch Python and run the `o3de.py` script.
    ```bash
    <engine>/python/python.sh <engine>/scripts/o3de.py <command>
    ```

{{< note >}}
Replace `<engine>` with the path to your engine.
{{< /note >}}

For example, to register the engine, enter the following command:

```bash
<engine>/scripts/o3de.sh register --this-engine
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

> ## Commands
> The `o3de` Python script contains the following commands, with further details in the following sections. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Commands

The `o3de` Python script contains the following commands, with further details in the following sections. 
```
Add a line of separation here.

| [`register-show`](#register-show) | Shows the registered O3DE objects. |
| [`get-registered`](#get-registered) | Shows the path to the registered O3DE object with the specified name. |
| [`enable-gem`](#enable-gem) | Enables the Gem in your project. |
| [`disable-gem`](#disable-gem) | Disables the Gem in your project. |
| [`edit-engine-properties`](#edit-engine-properties) | Edits the engine's properties. |
| [`edit-project-properties`](#edit-project-properties) | Edits the project's properties. |
| [`edit-gem-properties`](#edit-gem-properties) | Edits the Gem's properties. |
| [`sha256`](#sha256) | Creates a hash value for an O3DE object using SHA-256 (Secure Hash Algorithm 256). |

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `get-global-project`

Gets the global project that is registered to the engine. By default, reads the global project from `<USER_DIRECTORY>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-i`.

### Format

```cmd
get-global-project [-h] [-i INPUT_PATH]
```

### Usage

Reads the global project from `<USER_DIRECTORY>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

```cmd
o3de.bat get-global-project
```

> Reads the global project from a specified file.
> ```cmd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reads the global project from a specified file.

```cmd
```
Add a line of separation here.

                                  [-o OUTPUT_PATH] [-f]
```

### Usage

Sets the specified project as the global project in `<USER_DIRECTORY>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

```cmd
o3de.bat set-global-project -pp PROJECT_PATH
```

Sets the specified project as the global project in the specified path.

```cmd
o3de.bat set-global-project -pp PROJECT_PATH -o <USER_DIRECTORY>\.o3de\Registry\my-custom.setreg
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-pp PROJECT_PATH, --project-path PROJECT_PATH`**

  The path to the project. The path must contain the project manifest file (`project.json`) unless you also use the `--force` parameter.

- **`-pn PROJECT_NAME, --project-name PROJECT_NAME`**

  The name of the project. You can find the name in the project's `project.json` file.

- **`-o OUTPUT_PATH, --output-path OUTPUT_PATH`**

  The path and filename where the `project_path` key is written. The file should be located in `<USER_DIRECTORY>/.o3de/Registry/` and have the file extension `.setreg`. If you don't use this parameter, `o3de` writes the key to `<USER_DIRECTORY>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

- **`-f, --force`**

>   Forcibly sets the project path in the supplied .setreg file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Forcibly sets the project path in the supplied `.setreg` file.
```

- **`-drp DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PATH, --destination-restricted-path DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PATH`**

  The path where `o3de` writes the restricted files.

- **`-drn DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_NAME, --destination-restricted-name DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_NAME`**

  The name of the registered restricted path where `o3de` writes the restricted files. If supplied, you don't need to use the `--destination-restricted-path` parameter.

- **`-trp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH, --template-restricted-path TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH`**

The path to the restricted directory that `o3de` adds restricted platform sources to, if any.

- **`-trn TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME, --template-restricted-name TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME`**
  
The name of the restricted directory that `o3de` adds restricted platform sources to, if any. If supplied, you don't need to use the `--template-restricted-path` parameter.

- **`-drprp DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH, --destination-restricted-platform-relative-path DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH`**

>   A path to append to `DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PATH/<platform>`, which contains the restricted destination. For example: `--destination-restricted-path C:/instance --destination-restricted-platform-relative-path some/folder` => `C:/instance/<platform>/some/folder/<destination_name>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A path to append to `DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PATH/<platform>`, which contains the restricted destination. For example: `--destination-restricted-path C:/instance --destination-restricted-platform-relative-path some/folder` => `C:/instance/<platform>/some/folder/<destination_name>`.
```
Add a period at the end of this.

```cmd
o3de.bat register --update
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`--this-engine`**

  The engine running this O3DE Python script.

- **`-ep ENGINE_PATH, --engine-path ENGINE_PATH`**

  The path to the engine that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-pp PROJECT_PATH, --project-path PROJECT_PATH`**

  The path to the project that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-gp GEM_PATH, --gem-path GEM_PATH`**

  The path to the Gem that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-es EXTERNAL_SUBDIRECTORY, --external-subdirectory EXTERNAL_SUBDIRECTORY`**

  The path to the external subdirectory that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-tp TEMPLATE_PATH, --template-path TEMPLATE_PATH`**

  The path to the template that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-rp RESTRICTED_PATH, --restricted-path RESTRICTED_PATH`**

  The path to the restricted folder that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-ru REPO_URI, --repo-uri REPO_URI`**

  The path to the repository that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-aep ALL_ENGINES_PATH, --all-engines-path ALL_ENGINES_PATH`**

>   All of the engines that you want to register or deregister in the specified folder.
> - **`-app ALL_PROJECTS_PATH, --all-projects-path ALL_PROJECTS_PATH`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  All of the engines that you want to register or deregister in the specified folder.
  
- **`-app ALL_PROJECTS_PATH, --all-projects-path ALL_PROJECTS_PATH`**
```
Add a line between these two lines

```cmd
o3de.bat register-show --repos
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-te, --this-engine`**

  Outputs the current engine's path.

- **`-e, --engines`**

  Outputs a list of the engines that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-p, --projects`**

  Outputs a list of the projects that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-g, --gems`**

  Outputs a list of the Gems that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-t, --templates`**

  Outputs a list of the templates that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-r, --repos`**

  Outputs a list of the repos that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-rs, --restricted`**

  Outputs a list of the restricted directories that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-ep, --engine-projects`**

  Outputs a list of the projects that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file. Ignores repos.

- **`-eg, --engine-gems`**

  Outputs a list of the gems that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file. Ignores repos.

- **`-et, --engine-templates`**

>   Outputs a list of the Gems that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file. Ignores repos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outputs a list of the templates that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file. Ignores repos.
```

- **`-aru ALL_REPO_URI, --all-repo-uri ALL_REPO_URI`**

  All of the repositories in the specified folder that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-def DEFAULT_ENGINES_FOLDER, --default-engines-folder DEFAULT_ENGINES_FOLDER`**

  The path to the default engines folder that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-dpf DEFAULT_PROJECTS_FOLDER, --default-projects-folder DEFAULT_PROJECTS_FOLDER`**

  The path to the default projects folder that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-dgf DEFAULT_GEMS_FOLDER, --default-gems-folder DEFAULT_GEMS_FOLDER`**

  The path to the default Gems folder that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-dtf DEFAULT_TEMPLATES_FOLDER, --default-templates-folder DEFAULT_TEMPLATES_FOLDER`**

  The path to the default templates folder that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-drf DEFAULT_RESTRICTED_FOLDER, --default-restricted-folder DEFAULT_RESTRICTED_FOLDER`**

  The path to the default restricted folder that you want to register or deregister.

- **`-dtpf DEFAULT_THIRD_PARTY_FOLDER, --default-third-party-folder DEFAULT_THIRD_PARTY_FOLDER`**

>   The path to the default 3rd party folder that you want to register or deregister.

Reviewer: Should be "third-" instead of "3rd" here.

```

Outputs the list of restricted directories that are registered in both the `o3de_manifest.json` file and the current engine's `engine.json` file. If you use `-v`, then this command outputs each restricted directory's `restricted.json` file.

```cmd
o3de.bat register-show --all-restricted -v
```

<br>

**Showing registered external subdirectories**

Outputs the list of external subdirectories that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

```cmd
o3de.bat register-show --external-subdirectories
```

Outputs the list of external subdirectories that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file.

```cmd
o3de.bat register-show --engine-external-subdirectories
```

Outputs the list of external subdirectories that are registered in the specified project's `project.json` file.

```cmd
o3de.bat register-show --project-external-subdirectories --project-path PROJECT_PATH
```

Outputs the list of external subdirectories that are registered in both the `o3de_manifest.json` file and the current engine's `engine.json` file.

```cmd
o3de.bat register-show --all-external-subdirectories
```

<br>

**Showing registered repositories**

> Outputs the list of repositories that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

Reviewer: To clarify, when it renders, line 1106 appears on the same line as 1105. Add a separate line between these to make them appear correctly.

```cmd
o3de.bat register-show --repos
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-te, --this-engine`**

  Outputs the current engine's path.

- **`-e, --engines`**

  Outputs a list of the engines that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-p, --projects`**

  Outputs a list of the projects that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-g, --gems`**

  Outputs a list of the Gems that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-t, --templates`**

  Outputs a list of the templates that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-r, --repos`**

>   Outputs a list of the repos that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file. Ignores repos.

Author: In this case "repos" refers to an O3DE repository, where Gems, projects, and templates can be downloaded from. So this and other parameters that say "Ignore repos" means they will ignore any folder that is an O3DE repository. 

Currently, this is not functional. So we will not include it in the docs.

- **`-rs, --restricted`**

  Outputs a list of the restricted directories that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file.

- **`-ep, --engine-projects`**

  Outputs a list of the projects that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file. Ignores repos.

- **`-eg, --engine-gems`**

>   Outputs a list of the gems that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file. Ignores repos.

Reviewer: Still need to capitalize "Gems" here.

- **`-ers, --engine-restricted`**

  Outputs a list of the restricted directories that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file.

- **`-ees, --engine-external-subdirectories`**

  Outputs a list of the external subdirectories that are registered in the current engine's `engine.json` file.

- **`-pg, --project-gems`**

  Outputs a list of the gems that are registered with the specified project's `project.json` file. You must specify the project using the `-pp` or `-pn` options..

- **`-pt, --project-templates`**

  Outputs a list of the templates that are registered with the specified project's `project.json` file. You must specify the project using the `-pp` or `-pn` options..

- **`-prs, --project-restricted`**

  Outputs a list of the restricted directories that are registered with the specified project's `project.json` file. You must specify the project using the `-pp` or `-pn` options..

- **`-pes, --project-external-subdirectories`**

  Outputs a list of the external subdirectories register with the specified project's `project.json` file. You must specify the project using the `-pp` or `-pn` options..

- **`-ap, --all-projects`**

>   Outputs all of the projects that are registered in the `o3de_manifest.json` file and the current engine's `engine.json`. Ignores repos.

Reviewer: Add "file" for consistent phrasing with other descriptions.

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-ep ENGINE_PATH, --engine-path ENGINE_PATH`**

  The path to the engine.

- **`-en ENGINE_NAME, --engine-name ENGINE_NAME`**

  The name of the engine.

**Engine properties:**

The following parameters modify the specified engine's properties.
  
- **`-enn ENGINE_NEW_NAME, --engine-new-name ENGINE_NEW_NAME`**

  Sets the engine's name. 

- **`-ev ENGINE_VERSION, --engine-version ENGINE_VERSION`**

  Sets the engine's version.

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `edit-project-properties`

Edits the specified project's properties by modifying the `project.json` file. 

### Format 

```cmd
edit-project-properties [-h]
                        (-pp PROJECT_PATH | -pn PROJECT_NAME)
                        [-pnn PROJECT_NEW_NAME]
                        [-po PROJECT_ORIGIN]
                        [-pd PROJECT_DISPLAY]
                        [-ps PROJECT_SUMMARY]
                        [-pi PROJECT_ICON]
                        [-at [ADD_TAGS [ADD_TAGS ...]] | -dt
                        [DELETE_TAGS [DELETE_TAGS ...]] | -rt
                        [REPLACE_TAGS [REPLACE_TAGS ...]]]
```

### Usage

> Updates the "project_name" field within the gem.json located at the supplied project path or at the path of the registered project with <project-name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates the `project_name` field in the `gem.json` file located in the supplied project path or at the path of the registered project with <project-name>.
```
Does "with <project-name>" modify "Updates the `project_name` field? If so, consider this rewrite for flow/clarity:

>Updates the `project_name` field with <project-name> in the `gem.json` file located in the supplied project path or at the path of the registered project.

However, if "registered project with <project-name>" reads as intended, disregard this additional suggestion.

```cmd
o3de.bat edit-project-properties --project-path PROJECT_PATH --project-new-name PROJECT_NEW_NAME
o3de.bat edit-project-properties --project-name PROJECT_NAME --project-new-name PROJECT_NEW_NAME
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-pp PROJECT_PATH, --project-path PROJECT_PATH`**

  The path to the project.

- **`-pn PROJECT_NAME, --project-name PROJECT_NAME`**

  The name of the project.

- **`-at [ADD_TAGS [ADD_TAGS ...]], --add-tags [ADD_TAGS [ADD_TAGS ...]]`**

>   Adds tag(s) to the `user_tags` property. To add multiple tags, use a space delimited
> list (for example, `-at A B C`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds tags to the `user_tags` property. To add multiple tags, use a space-delimited list. For example: `-at A B C`.
```
* The reader will understand that "tags" can mean "one or more" without the parenthesis around 's'.
* Hyphenated "space delimited", as it's a compound adjective describing "list".
* Reformatted the example at the end for consistency with previous examples in this CLI ref.

- **`-dt [DELETE_TAGS [DELETE_TAGS ...]], --delete-tags [DELETE_TAGS [DELETE_TAGS ...]]`**

>   Removes tag(s) from the `user_tags` property. To delete multiple tags, use a space delimited list (for example, `-dt A B C`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removes tags from the `user_tags` property. To delete multiple tags, use a space-delimited list. For example: `-dt A B C`.
```

- **`-rt [REPLACE_TAGS [REPLACE_TAGS ...]], --replace-tags [REPLACE_TAGS [REPLACE_TAGS ...]]`**

>   Replace the `user_tags` property with the specified space delimited list of values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replaces the `user_tags` property with the specified space-delimited list of values.
```

**Project properties:**

The following parameters modify the specified project's properties.

- **`-pnn PROJECT_NEW_NAME, --project-new-name PROJECT_NEW_NAME`**

  Sets the project's name.

- **`-po PROJECT_ORIGIN, --project-origin PROJECT_ORIGIN`**

>   Sets the description or URL for the project origin (such as the project host, repository, or owner).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets the description or URL for the project origin, such as the project host, repository, or owner.
```

- **`-pd PROJECT_DISPLAY, --project-display PROJECT_DISPLAY`**

  Sets the project's display name.

- **`-ps PROJECT_SUMMARY, --project-summary PROJECT_SUMMARY`**

  Sets the project's summary description.

- **`-pi PROJECT_ICON, --project-icon PROJECT_ICON`**

  Sets the path to the project's icon resource.

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `edit-gem-properties`

Edits the specified Gem's properties by modifying the `gem.json` file. 

### Format

```cmd
edit-gem-properties [-h] (-gp GEM_PATH | -gn GEM_NAME)
                        [-gnn GEM_NEW_NAME] [-gd GEM_DISPLAY]
                        [-go GEM_ORIGIN] [-gt {Code,Tool,Asset}]
                        [-gs GEM_SUMMARY] [-gi GEM_ICON]
                        [-gr GEM_REQUIREMENTS]
                        [-at [ADD_TAGS [ADD_TAGS ...]] | -dt
                        [REMOVE_TAGS [REMOVE_TAGS ...]] | -rt
                        [REPLACE_TAGS [REPLACE_TAGS ...]]]
```

### Usage

> Updates the `gem_name` field in the `gem.json` file located at the specified Gem's folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates the `gem_name` field in the `gem.json` file located in the specified Gem's folder.
```

```cmd
o3de.bat edit-gem-properties --gem-path GEM_PATH --gem-new-name GEM_NEW_NAME

// or

o3de.bat edit-gem-properties --gem-name GEM_NAME --gem-new-name GEM_NEW_NAME
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

> - 
>   Shows the help message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Shows the help message.
```
Delete the extra bullet here.

- **`-gp GEM_PATH, --gem-path GEM_PATH`**

  The path to the Gem.

- **`-gn GEM_NAME, --gem-name GEM_NAME`**

  The name of the Gem.

- **`-at [ADD_TAGS [ADD_TAGS ...]], --add-tags [ADD_TAGS [ADD_TAGS ...]]`**

>   Adds tag(s) to the `user_tags` property. To add multiple tags, use a space delimited list (for example, `-at A B C`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds tags to the `user_tags` property. To add multiple tags, use a space-delimited list. For example: `-at A B C`.
```

- **`-dt [DELETE_TAGS [DELETE_TAGS ...]], --delete-tags [DELETE_TAGS [DELETE_TAGS ...]]`**

>   Removes tag(s) from the `user_tags` property. To delete multiple tags, use a space delimited list (for example, `-dt A B C`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removes tags from the `user_tags` property. To delete multiple tags, use a space-delimited list. For example: `-dt A B C`.
```

- **`-rt [REPLACE_TAGS [REPLACE_TAGS ...]], --replace-tags [REPLACE_TAGS [REPLACE_TAGS ...]]`**
  

>   Replace the `user_tags` property with the specified space delimited list of values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replaces the `user_tags` property with the specified space-delimited list of values.
```

**Gem properties:**

  The following parameters modify the specified Gem's properties.

- **`-gnn GEM_NEW_NAME, --gem-new-name GEM_NEW_NAME`**

  Sets the Gem's name.

- **`-gd GEM_DISPLAY, --gem-display GEM_DISPLAY`**

  Sets the Gem's display name.

- **`-go GEM_ORIGIN, --gem-origin GEM_ORIGIN`**

>   Sets the description or URL for the Gem origin (such as the Gem host, repository, or owner).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets the description or URL for the Gem's origin, such as the Gem host, repository, or owner.
```

- **`-gt {Code,Tool,Asset}, --gem-type {Code,Tool,Asset}`**

  Sets the Gem type to either Code, Tool, or Asset.

- **`-gs GEM_SUMMARY, --gem-summary GEM_SUMMARY`**

  Sets the Gem's summary description.

- **`-gi GEM_ICON, --gem-icon GEM_ICON`**

  Sets the path to the Gem's icon resource.

- **`-gr GEM_REQUIREMENTS, --gem-requirements GEM_REQUIREMENTS`**

  Sets the description of the requirements that are needed to use the Gem.

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `sha256`

> Creates a hash value for an O3DE object using the SHA-256 secure hash algorithm. This command outputs the specified file path and writes the value to the `sha256` field in the specified JSON file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a hash value for an O3DE object using SHA-256 (Secure Hash Algorithm 256). This command outputs the specified file path and writes the value to the `sha256` field in the specified JSON file.
```
Revised for consistency with the updated usage in the **Commands** section intro.

### Format

```cmd
sha256 [-h] -f FILE_PATH [-j JSON_PATH]
```

### Usage

```cmd
o3de.bat sha256 --file-path FILE_PATH --json-path JSON_PATH
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-f FILE_PATH, --file-path FILE_PATH`**

  The path to the O3DE object.

- **`-j JSON_PATH, --json-path JSON_PATH`**

>   The path to the O3DE object's JSON file that you want to add the "sha256" element to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path to the O3DE object's JSON file that you want to add the `sha256` hash value to.
```
Is "hash value" more accurate here?

```bash
<engine>/scripts/o3de.sh register --this-engine
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Commands

| Command | Description | 
| - | - |
| [`get-global-project`](#get-global-project) | Gets the global project that is registered to the engine. |
| [`set-global-project`](#set-global-project) | Sets the specified project as the engine's global project. |
| [`create-template`](#create-template) | Creates a template out of the specified source path. |
| [`create-from-template`](#create-from-template) | Creates a template from an existing template.  |
| [`create-project`](#create-project) | Creates a new project. |
| [`create-gem`](#create-gem) | Creates a new Gem. |
| [`register`](#register) | Register an O3DE object. |
| [`register-show`](#register-show) | Shows the registered O3DE objects. |
| [`get-registered`](#get-registered) | Shows the registered O3DE object's path that is mapped to the specified name. |
| [`enable-gem`](#enable-gem) | Enables the Gem in your project, so you can use the assets or code the Gem provides. |
| [`disable-gem`](#disable-gem) | Disables the Gem in your project. |
| [`sha256`](#sha256) | Creates a secure hash algorithm (SHA-256). |

> <!-- | [`edit-project-properties`](#edit-project-properties) |  | -->

Author: We are waiting for more information on this!

## `get-global-project`

Gets the global project that is registered to the engine in the specified `.setreg` file at `<user>/.o3de/Registry/`.

```cmd
usage: o3de.py get-global-project [-h] [-i INPUT_PATH]
```

### Usage

```cmd

> o3de.bat get-global-project -i SETREG_PATH

Reviewer 2: If you intend this to be a usage _example_, it needs an explanation of the scenario. Perhaps use a comment in the block? Also, SETREG_PATH doesn't really add anything over INPUT_PATH that's shown in the formatting above.

This particular command might also benefit from two examples.
```suggestion
// Read the global project from <USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg.
o3de.bat get-global-project

// Read the global project from a specified path.
o3de.bat get-global-project -i C:\users\<USERNAME>\.o3de\Registry\my-custom.setreg
```

Reviewer 2: I guess the downside to using actual paths in every usage example is that it can quickly lengthen these examples, enough to make it harder to process all the information shown.

I propose that the guideline here should be to use it when there's added value in showing an actual example over just a variable. For example, there's implicit value in showing the path to the setreg file in the get-global-project's `-i` parameter, and the set-global-project's `-o` parameter because users should typically put these files in the .o3de/Registry directory and the filename extension should be `.setreg`.

```

### Optional Parameters

`-h, --help`
show this help message and exit

`-i INPUT_PATH, --input-path INPUT_PATH`

Optional path to file to read `/Amazon/AzCore/Bootstrap/project_path` key from. If not supplied, then
`C:\Users\USER_PATH\.o3de\Registry\bootstrap.setreg` is used instead

## `set-global-project`

> Sets the specified project as the engine's global project in the specified `.setreg` file at `<user>/.o3de/Registry/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sets the specified project as the engine's global project. By default this is set in `C:\Users\USER_PATH\.o3de\Registry\bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-o`.
```

Reviewer 3: This is only the path for setting the engine's global project on Windows.
On Mac and Linux the paths are based on their home directory structure
Linux: `/home/USER_PATH/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`
Mac: `/Users/USER_PATH/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`

Author: @lumberyard-employee-dm brings up a good point. Although our Windows support is currently more established than Linux and Mac, I think our docs should be platform inclusive (when possible). In some cases, I think it's okay to just show the Windows version, as long as customers have already been given Mac and Linux alternatives. For example, the usage examples use `o3de.bat`, which is Windows-based. However, in the beginning of this document, we mention how to run `o3de` on Linux platforms. So, we already gave customers who use Linux an alternative instruction. 

One solution I can think of is writing the path as platform independent. For example, `<USER_PATH>\.o3de\Registry\bootstrap.setreg`. Is this format understandable across the different platforms?

```cmd
usage: o3de.oy set-global-project [-h] (-pp PROJECT_PATH | -pn PROJECT_NAME)
                                  [-o OUTPUT_PATH] [-f]
```

### Usage

```cmd
o3de.bat set-global-project -pp PROJECT_PATH -o SETREG_PATH

> ```

Reviewer 2: Refer to the get-global-project command for suggestions on the formatting of this standard info.

| [`disable-gem`](#disable-gem) | Disables the Gem in your project. |
| [`edit-engine-properties`](#edit-engine-properties) | Edits the engine's properties. |
| [`edit-project-properties`](#edit-project-properties) | Edits the project's properties. |
| [`edit-gem-properties`](#edit-gem-properties) | Edits the Gem's properties. |
| [`sha256`](#sha256) | Creates a hash value for an O3DE object using the SHA-256 secure hash algorithm. |

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `get-global-project`

Gets the global project that is registered to the engine. By default, this is read from `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-i`.

### Format

```cmd
get-global-project [-h] [-i INPUT_PATH]
```

### Usage

Reads the global project from `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

```cmd
o3de.bat get-global-project
```

Reads the global project from a specified file.
```cmd
o3de.bat get-global-project -i C:\Users\<USERNAME>\.o3de\Registry\my-custom.setreg
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-i INPUT_PATH, --input-path INPUT_PATH`**

>   A path to the input file that you want to read the  `/Amazon/AzCore/Bootstrap/project_path` key from. If not supplied, then this command uses the input file `C:/Users/USER_PATH/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg` instead.

Reviewer 2: For consistency:
```suggestion
  A path to the input file that you want to read the  `/Amazon/AzCore/Bootstrap/project_path` key from. If not supplied, then this command uses the input file `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg` instead.
```

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

> ## `set-global-project`

Reviewer 2: I suggest explaining the effect of setting a global project, too - namely that tools like Asset Processor and Editor, when launched from an installed engine, will use the global project (unless overridden by the project-path parameter).

Author: I added explanation below. Feel free to let me know how I can improve it. 
> If you set a global project, then O3DE tools (such as the Asset Processor and Editor) will use the global project. You can override the global project by specifying a project with the `project-path` parameter when you launch the O3DE tools from the command line.

Reviewer 2: Change
"...will use the global project."
to
"...will use the global project when they are launched from an installed engine."

From my testing, this additional part makes it more complete and accurate.

> Sets the specified project as the engine's global project. By default this is set in `C:\Users\USER_PATH\.o3de\Registry\bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-o`.

Reviewer 2: For consistency:
```suggestion
Sets the specified project as the engine's global project. By default this is set in `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-o`.
```

### Format 

```cmd
set-global-project [-h] (-pp PROJECT_PATH | -pn PROJECT_NAME)
                                  [-o OUTPUT_PATH] [-f]
```

### Usage

Sets the specified project as the global project in `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

```cmd
o3de.bat set-global-project -pp PROJECT_PATH
```

Sets the specified project as the global project in the specified path.

```cmd
o3de.bat set-global-project -pp PROJECT_PATH -o C:\Users\<USERNAME>\.o3de\Registry\my-custom.setreg
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-pp PROJECT_PATH, --project-path PROJECT_PATH`**

>   The path to the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The path to the project. The path must contain the project manifest file, `project.json`, unless the `--force` parameter is also used.
```

- **`-pn PROJECT_NAME, --project-name PROJECT_NAME`**

  The name of the project. You can find the name in the project's `project.json` file.

- **`-o OUTPUT_PATH, --output-path OUTPUT_PATH`**

>   A path to the output file that you want to write the `project_path` key to. If not supplied, then  this command uses the input file `C:/Users/USER_NAME/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The path and filename where the `project_path` key is written. The file should be located in `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/` and have the file extension `.setreg`. If this parameter is not used, the key is written to `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.
```

- **`-f, --force`**

  Forces the project path to be set in the supplied setreg file. 

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `create-template`

Creates a template out of the specified source path.

### Format

``` cmd
create-template [-h] -sp SOURCE_PATH [-tp TEMPLATE_PATH]
                [-srp SOURCE_RESTRICTED_PATH | -srn SOURCE_RESTRICTED_NAME]
                [-trp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH | -trn TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME]
                [-sn SOURCE_NAME]
                [-srprp SOURCE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH]
                [-trprp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH]
                [-kr] [-kl] [-r [REPLACE [REPLACE ...]]] [-f]
```

> ### Usage

Reviewer 2: This command is complicated enough that it should have some additional examples. I know Derric has several more usage scenarios in his documentation on this Python script. If you don't have time to add these examples now, then I would suggest creating a GitHub issue for someone to do so later.

Author: https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/issues/806

- **`-trprp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH, --template-restricted-platform-relative-path TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH`**

  A path to append to `TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH/<platform>`, which contains the restricted template source. For example: `--template-restricted-path C:/restricted --template-restricted-platform-relative-path some/folder` => `C:/restricted/<platform>/some/folder/<template_name>`.

- **`-kr, --keep-restricted-in-template`**

  If true, creates the restricted platforms in the template folder. If false, creates the restricted files in the restricted folder, located at TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH. By default, this parameter is false.

- **`-kl, --keep-license-text`**

  If true, keeps the license text (located in the `template.json` file) in the new template's `template.json` file. If false, the license text will not be included. By default, this parameter is false. The license text is all of the lines of text, starting at {BEGIN_LICENSE} and ending at {END_LICENSE}. 

- **`-r [REPLACE [REPLACE ...]], --replace [REPLACE [REPLACE ...]]`**

>   Add A->B replacement pairs. FFor example: `--replace MyUsername ${User} 1723905 ${id}`. This replaces ${User}with "MyUsername", and ${id} with "1723905". Note: <TemplateName> is the last component of the TEMPLATE_PATH. The following replacement pairs already exist: <TemplateName> -> ${Name}, <templatename> -> ${NameLower}, <TEMPLATENAME> -> ${NameUpper}. 

Reviewer 3: Typo  `FFor` -> `For`

- **`-f, --force`**
         
  Forces the new template directory to override the existing one, if one exists. 

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `create-from-template`

Creates an instance of a generic template based on the specified template.

### Format

```cmd
create-from-template [-h] -dp DESTINATION_PATH
                                    (-tp TEMPLATE_PATH | -tn TEMPLATE_NAME)
                                    [-dn DESTINATION_NAME]
                                    [-drp DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PATH | -drn DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_NAME]
                                    [-trp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH | -trn TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME]
                                    [-drprp DESTINATION_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH]
                                    [-trprp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH]
                                    [-kr] [-kl] [-r [REPLACE [REPLACE ...]]]
                                    [-f]
```

### Usage

> Creates a template based on the specified template and saves it in the specified path. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instantiates a template based on the specified template and saves it in the specified path. 
```

- **`-trn TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME, --template-restricted-name TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME`**

  The name of the template's restricted path. If supplied, you do not need to use the `--template-restricted-path` parameter.

- **`-grprp GEM_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH, --gem-restricted-platform-relative-path GEM_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH`**

  A path to append to the `GEM_RESTRICTED_PATH/<platform>`, which contains the restricted template. For example, `--gem-restricted-path C:/restricted --gem-restricted- platform-relative-path some/folder` => `C:/restricted/<platform>/some/folder/<gem_name>`.

- **`-trprp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH, --template-restricted-platform-relative-path TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH`**

  A path to append to `TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH/<platform>`, which contains the restricted template. For example: `--template-restricted-path C:/restricted --template-restricted-platform-relaive-path some/folder` => `C:/restricted/<platform>/some/folder/<template_name>`.

- **`-r [REPLACE [REPLACE ...]], --replace [REPLACE [REPLACE ...]]`**

>   Add A->B replacement pairs. ${Name} and all of the other standard Gem replacements are automatically inferred from the Gem name. These replacements supersede all inferred replacement pairs. For example: `--replace ${DATE} 1/1/2020 ${id} 1723905`. This replaces ${DATE} with `1/1/2020`, and  ${id} with `1723905`. Note:  \<GemNam> is the last component of the GEM_PATH. The following replacement pairs already exist: \<GemName\> -> ${Name}, \<gemname\> -> ${NameLower}, \<GEMANME\> -> ${NameUpper}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Add A->B replacement pairs. ${Name} and all of the other standard Gem replacements are automatically inferred from the Gem name. These replacements supersede all inferred replacement pairs. For example: `--replace ${DATE} 1/1/2020 ${id} 1723905`. This replaces ${DATE} with `1/1/2020`, and  ${id} with `1723905`. Note:  \<GemName> is the last component of the GEM_PATH. The following replacement pairs already exist: \<GemName\> -> ${Name}, \<gemname\> -> ${NameLower}, \<GEMNAME\> -> ${NameUpper}.
```

| - | - |
| [`get-global-project`](#get-global-project) | Gets the global project that is registered to the engine. |
| [`set-global-project`](#set-global-project) | Sets the specified project as the engine's global project. |
| [`create-template`](#create-template) | Creates a template out of the specified source path. |
| [`create-from-template`](#create-from-template) | Creates an instance from a generic template.  |
| [`create-project`](#create-project) | Creates a new project. |
| [`create-gem`](#create-gem) | Creates a new Gem. |
| [`register`](#register) | Registers an O3DE object. |
| [`register-show`](#register-show) | Shows the registered O3DE objects. |
| [`get-registered`](#get-registered) | Shows the path to the registered O3DE object with the specified name. |
| [`enable-gem`](#enable-gem) | Enables the Gem in your project. |
| [`disable-gem`](#disable-gem) | Disables the Gem in your project. |
| [`edit-engine-properties`](#edit-engine-properties) | Edits the engine's properties. |
| [`edit-project-properties`](#edit-project-properties) | Edits the project's properties. |
| [`edit-gem-properties`](#edit-gem-properties) | Edits the Gem's properties. |

> | [`sha256`](#sha256) | Creates a hash value for an O3DE object using the SHA-256 secure hash algorithm. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`sha256`](#sha256) | Creates a hash value for an O3DE object using SHA-256 (Secure Hash Algorithm 256). |
```
Revised slightly to align to the format I'm finding in [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2) and AWS style.

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `get-global-project`

> Gets the global project that is registered to the engine. By default, this is read from `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-i`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the global project that is registered to the engine. By default, reads the global project from `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-i`.
```
Passive voice fix ("is read from")

### Format

```cmd
get-global-project [-h] [-i INPUT_PATH]
```

### Usage

Reads the global project from `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

```cmd
o3de.bat get-global-project
```

Reads the global project from a specified file.
```cmd
o3de.bat get-global-project -i <USER_PATH>\.o3de\Registry\my-custom.setreg
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-i INPUT_PATH, --input-path INPUT_PATH`**

  A path to the input file that you want to read the  `/Amazon/AzCore/Bootstrap/project_path` key from. If not supplied, then this command uses the input file `</USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg` instead.

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `set-global-project`

> Sets the specified project as the engine's global project. By default this is set in `C:\Users\USER_PATH\.o3de\Registry\bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-o`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets the specified project as the engine's global project. By default, sets this in `C:\Users\USER_PATH\.o3de\Registry\bootstrap.setreg`. You can also specify a file path using `-o`.
```
Passive voice fix ("is set in" > "sets this in")

> If you set a global project, then O3DE tools (such as the Asset Processor and Editor) will use the global project. You can override the global project by specifying a project with the `project-path` parameter when you launch the O3DE tools from the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set a global project, then O3DE tools (such as **Asset Processor** and **O3DE Editor**) use the global project. To override the global project, specify a project with the `project-path` parameter when you launch the O3DE tools from the command line.
```
* For the tool names, used **bold** and dropped the definite article for their proper naming (per our [terminology guidelines](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-docs/terminology/).)
* Minor edits for tense (present preferred) and flow.

### Format 

```cmd
set-global-project [-h] (-pp PROJECT_PATH | -pn PROJECT_NAME)
                                  [-o OUTPUT_PATH] [-f]
```

### Usage

Sets the specified project as the global project in `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

```cmd
o3de.bat set-global-project -pp PROJECT_PATH
```

Sets the specified project as the global project in the specified path.

```cmd
o3de.bat set-global-project -pp PROJECT_PATH -o <USER_PATH>\.o3de\Registry\my-custom.setreg
```

### Optional parameters

- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-pp PROJECT_PATH, --project-path PROJECT_PATH`**

>   The path to the project. The path must contain the project manifest file, `project.json`, unless the `--force` parameter is also used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path to the project. The path must contain the project manifest file (`project.json`) unless you also use the `--force` parameter.
```

- **`-pn PROJECT_NAME, --project-name PROJECT_NAME`**

  The name of the project. You can find the name in the project's `project.json` file.

- **`-o OUTPUT_PATH, --output-path OUTPUT_PATH`**

>   The path and filename where the `project_path` key is written. The file should be located in `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/` and have the file extension `.setreg`. If this parameter is not used, the key is written to `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The path and filename where the `project_path` key is written. The file should be located in `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/` and have the file extension `.setreg`. If you don't use this parameter, the key is written to `<USER_PATH>/.o3de/Registry/bootstrap.setreg`.
```

- **`-f, --force`**

>   Forces the project path to be set in the supplied setreg file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forces the project path to be set in the supplied `.setreg` file.
```
Alternative wording (for active voice): "Forcibly sets the project path in the supplied `.setreg` file.

<!-------------------------------------------------------------->

## `create-template`

Creates a template out of the specified source path.

### Format

``` cmd
create-template [-h] -sp SOURCE_PATH [-tp TEMPLATE_PATH]
                [-srp SOURCE_RESTRICTED_PATH | -srn SOURCE_RESTRICTED_NAME]
                [-trp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH | -trn TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME]
                [-sn SOURCE_NAME]
                [-srprp SOURCE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH]
                [-trprp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PLATFORM_RELATIVE_PATH]
                [-kr] [-kl] [-r [REPLACE [REPLACE ...]]] [-f]
```

### Usage

> Creates a template from the source folder and saves the template into the specified path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a template from the source folder and saves the template in the specified path.
```

```cmd
o3de.bat create-template --source-path SOURCE_PATH --template-path TEMPLATE_PATH
```

### Optional parameters
  
- **`-h, --help`**

  Shows the help message.

- **`-sp SOURCE_PATH, --source-path SOURCE_PATH`**

>   The path to the source folder that you want to create into a template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path to the source folder that you want to use as a template.
```
Or, "to use for a template"

- **`-tp TEMPLATE_PATH, --template-path TEMPLATE_PATH`**

>   The path to an existing template you want to create a new template from. The path can be absolute or relative to the default templates path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path to an existing template that you want to create a new template from. The path can be absolute or relative to the default template's path.
```

- **`-srp SOURCE_RESTRICTED_PATH, --source-restricted-path SOURCE_RESTRICTED_PATH`**

  The path to the source's restricted folder.

- **`-srn SOURCE_RESTRICTED_NAME, --source-restricted-name SOURCE_RESTRICTED_NAME`**

  The name of the source's restricted folder. If supplied, you do not need to use the `--source-restricted-path` parameter. 

- **`-trp TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH, --template-restricted-path TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_PATH`**

  The path to the template's restricted folder.

- **`-trn TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME, --template-restricted-name TEMPLATE_RESTRICTED_NAME`**

  The name of the template's restricted folder. If supplied, you do not need to use the `--template-restricted-path` parameter.

- **`-sn SOURCE_NAME, --source-name SOURCE_NAME`**

>   Substitutes any file and path entries that match the source name - ${Name} and ${SanitizedCppName} - in the source-path directory. An example of path substitution: `--source-name Foo<source-path>/Code/Include/FooBus.h` -> `<source-path>/Code/Include/${Name}Bus.h`. An example of file content substitution: `class FooRequests` -> `class ${SanitizedCppName}Requests`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Substitutes any file and path entries that match the source name—${Name} and ${SanitizedCppName}—in the source-path directory. An example of path substitution: `--source-name Foo<source-path>/Code/Include/FooBus.h` -> `<source-path>/Code/Include/${Name}Bus.h`. An example of file content substitution: `class FooRequests` -> `class ${SanitizedCppName}Requests`.
```
